A computer desktop shows four windows
with text, images, and videos.
A video is brought forward
with a light-yellow background.
The cursor takes a screenshot of the
video background.
The screenshot appears on screen
in an image editor.
The cursor uses tools to create a
light-yellow color swatch.
An image with video thumbnails appears
in the editor.
The image background is
filled with light yellow.
The cursor uses a layer palette
to reveal text:
This is what we did in our class
Daniel Anderson
Jackclyn Ngo.
Sydney Stegall
Kyle Stevens
A web browser slides on screen. A video
floats in the center of the window.
The cursor closes the floating video.
Across the top and bottom of the browser
appear rows of video thumbnails.
The cursor hovers over the thumbnails
at the top, revealing short descriptions.
at the bottom, revealing descriptions.
The web browser slides off screen.
The cursor brings forward a video
and presses play.
The video is scaled to fill the screen.
A browser window shows a recording of a
scene being painted with digital tools.
The window is moved to the top right.
A browser window shows a video clip
on YouTube. The cursor presses play.
The cursor resizes and positions
the window in the top left
The video shows a singer and microphone,
and then a concert crowd.
A browser window shows a video clip on
YouTube titled: Charles Smith Pottery
The cursor resizes the window. The video
shows a clay vase on a potting wheel.
A browser window shows a video. The cursor
presses play and train imagery appears.
The cursor resizes and moves the window.
A video player comes forward titled:
Shifts in Composing. The video plays.
The cursor resizes the video
to fill most of the screen.
In the video, materials appear
in a web browser.
The cursor moves the window with
train imagery to the lower right.
In the Shifts in Composing video,
text is highlighted: Instead of a
straight up reading and writing style
English course, this seminar asked us
to mix mediums and to compose
without words.
A new passage is highlighted:
Whoever said that "composition" was
limited to the realm of words on a page
failed to understand what me and my
classmates were able to learn. . . .
The cursor moves the potting wheel
imagery to the right, then lower left.
In the Shifts in Composing video,
web materials appear and scroll.
In the lower right, a train moves
along a shoreline.
In the Shifts in Composing video,
a passage is highlighted:
While the web essay assignment still
contained some semblance to traditional
composition—a strong written
component—this assignment seemed
to come straight from the
Communications Department. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
I had a much more difficult time
choosing a topic. I could not decide what
it is I wanted to say. This I realized was
exactly like composing in the traditional
way. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
At this point in the process,
the mash up's relation to composing
became clearer, and my definition of
composition began to shift. . . .
Tools compose a mountain range and
purple-orange sky in the painting program.
More text is highlighted: A video mashup
was far closer to a composition than
I had previously imagined,
and it was infinitely more fun. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
The assignment was fascinating
and exciting for me. Here, I had done
something really cool. I had composed
without using a single word. . . .
A new passage is highlighted. A callout
draws circles around phrases:
people noticed it more
I emailed this video to everyone
I showed it and people looked.
A new video appears titled:
Performing in the Learning Studio.
The cursor moves and scales up the video.
The video shows pages in a web browser.
A passage is highlighted: This class was
by far the most interesting and rewarding
English class I have experienced at UNC.
Professor Anderson introduced a whole new
style of teaching and learning, which
proved to be much more of a class
conversation, and a process,
than any of my previous classes.
More materials show in the browser.
A passage is highlighted:
This project primarily taught me the
importance of self-examination
in the writing process. If I had been able
to step away from the essay
when first writing it, I would have seen
that my thesis attempted to connect
too many ideas. Now I can see
the shortcomings of the essay,
but in all honesty, I still am
not fully able to get past them.
The cursor brings forward the "River
under African Trance" performance, showing
A guitar player colored
by red and blue lighting.
In the lower right, a steam engine
rolls by.
Clay spins on a potting wheel
in the lower left.
In the upper right, the painting program
shows a mountain scene.
A video appears titled: Open Assignments,
Affective Modes, and Creativity
The cursor scales up the video.
The video shows pages in a browser.
A passage is highlighted:
The fact our class would be
centered on technology-based projects was
extremely appealing. I am a tactile,
product-driven learner; I love to
manipulate ideas
with my hands and eyes. . . .
The cursor scrolls through pages
in the browser.
A passage is highlighted: I had to
switch gears from words and images
to a more auditory and emotional mode
in completing our next assignment.
A callout underlines a passage:
The thinking was the real challenge.
Typing appears on screen:
I shared my work with my
friends and family in a way I'd never
shared my essays.
On, screen the band performs in the upper
left.
Clay spins on a potting wheel
in the lower left.
The painting program appears
in the upper right.
In the Open Assignments, Affective Modes,
and Creativity video, text is highlighted:
Once Professor Anderson explained
that it could be more about a feeling,
and less like an essay, I was good to go.
I really liked the idea of finding a way
to engage with some of my
tangled feelings about the book.
On screen, videos with browsers are placed
side-by-side. A passage is highlighted:
I got really in to the process of video
editing. It was very time consuming,
but I also found it rewarding.
It reminded me of the labor intensive
processes from some of my studio art
classes, like developing photographs
or working with a printing press.
I loved the way I could manipulate the
clips and say whatever I wanted.
A new passage is highlighted: Dear Reader,
This note to you is the last piece
of writing I will ever do as an
undergraduate. Wow. Maybe I should
say the last composition, actually,
since it's more than writing. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
English majors are well accustomed
to writing analytical papers on class
readings. But our projects strayed
from this standard format in exciting
and intimidating ways.
This class was intriguingly
self-reflective, ultimately an ongoing
conversation about communication and how
to better learn in a classroom setting.
A new passage is highlighted:
It turns out that "Performing Literature"
is unlike any class I've taken before. We
looked at the idea of communication
as something much broader than writing
alone, and at the role technology plays
in the way we communicate.
Text is copied from a browser and pasted
into a text editor.
The font is scaled up, and the video zooms
in on the passage: I got into "the zone"
as I do when working on my paintings or
other art for my Studio Art classes,
and I didn't even notice I'd been sitting
there for hours making it!
I think this medium is much more
comparable to creating an art piece
or composing music in that there are
few limitations or restrictions. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
I also managed to find a clip that made
the loud banging sound about halfway
through the trailer make sense.
On screen, videos play: a potting wheel,
trains, painting, pages in browsers.
A passage is highlighted:
I ran into massive technical difficulties.
So my screencast became about the messy
process of making itself. I actually had
a lot of fun with it. It was pretty
freeing to just give up some control,
and adapt to what was happening.
The painting program is moved to the left
showing a landscape with mountains.
The cursor rearranges videos.
A passage is highlighted:
Doing the Prezi and group presentation
really helped us to focus our idea,
and to figure out what needed work
in our analysis. Our presentation
had a much more meaningful analysis
than our first draft.
The cursor rearranges videos on screen.
A passage is highlighted:
This course has also placed
a strong emphasis on revision. As an
English major, I'm accustomed to
the long process of editing. But Professor
Anderson has taken revising a step further
in this course. As the Fall semester draws
to a close, I have not received a single
grade on any of these projects. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
Yet, in most college classes, the
writing relationship is constant
—one to one, student to professor.
Writing takes place in the private space
of one's computer or notebook. . . .
A new passage is highlighted:
I was very relieved that I could
do an abstract reading for the screencast
though, because I feel like viewers can
get more out of the atmosphere created by
the screencast instead of having
the information pounded
into their heads. . . .
The cursor rearranges videos on screen.
In the upper right,
a passenger train rolls by.
In the lower left, a vase spins
on a potting wheel.
The cursor moves two videos showing pages
in browsers side by side.
In both videos, phrases
and snippets of text are highlighted:
I wanted to bring to life
this emotional poem;
And a voice;
video;
and audio;
instructing him to speak;
the things the speaker was feeling;
an audio recording of rolling waves;
to augment the feeling of great;
spacious loneliness.
A passage is highlighted:
The works I have created have taken
time and attention, but they also required
a great deal of help.
The video with the band performing ends.
The cursor moves materials off screen.
All windows are minimized leaving
a white screen.